This model proposes a text entry system for soft keyboard by using eye blinking. The application can be considered as an alternative solution Like Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) for either abled bodied or differently abled people suffering from multiple disabilities except blindness. In this app based interface, input signal will be provided by eye blinking for text entry system. Whenever a people is suffering from different disabilities like brain stroke, spinal cord injuries or speaking impairment and neuromotor disease, they don’t be able to behave like other normal people due to their deformity. An augmentative and alternative solution is required for them to interact with the real world. In market, there are many technologies available for helping those people. But most of the technologies are so expensive that common people can’t afford them. Our proposed application provides the same feasibility for low cost effectiveness, easily intractable and detectable input signal by blinking their eyes for expressing thoughts and ideas.
So our goal is to provide new technologies that can easily affordable, maintainable and fastest way of intractable. It helps the user to communicate with other people just by blinking their eyes. In our proposed model, we are having two parts; one part is dealing with the application where input for the text entry will be done. And other part deals with hardware for input signal to be forwarded to the application by blinking their eyes. An android application is developed for that category of user to interact with the system by blinking their eyes for text entry and displays the inputted word on its screen. The hardware will interact with the system by using Bluetooth technology and the user doesn’t need to interact physically with the device and application.
Keywords:
Human Computer Interface, Eye Blink, Text Entry, Soft Keyboard, Augmentative and Alternative Communication.
